Imagine the scene. It's nighttime. You're in the Garden of Gethsemane with your close friends and beloved teacher.
Suddenly, you hear a crowd coming. They're being led by a man you know, Judas Iscariot.
He approaches Jesus and kisses him on the cheek. He then steps aside as men move into a rest Jesus.
Your emotions turn inside you. Your master and Lord is being arrested. The Son of God.
How can this be happening? What do you do before you can even decide what to do?
Peter draws his sword and chops off the ear of the slave of the high priest.
Then Jesus says to Peter, return your sword to its place.
For those who take up the sword will perish by the sword.
And then you watch the unbelievable as Jesus heals the man's ear.
Peter must have thought he was a great and noble thing to fight in behalf of the Son of God.
But Jesus didn't think so. With six words, return your sword to its place.
Jesus taught his disciples an important lesson.
This was not their fight, nor was it the time to fight.
So in this talk, we're going to focus our attention on an insidious way that any of us,
like Peter, can become inadvertently involved in this world's conflicts without even realizing it.
And we will talk about how we can avoid making that serious mistake.
But first, let's discuss why Jesus did not ask his father to send 12 legions of angels to help him when being arrested.
It has to do with Jesus' name.
So please open your Bible to Isaiah chapter 9 and let's read verse 6.
Isaiah chapter 9 and verse 6. Now we know Jesus has many titles.
But in this verse, we're going to focus on on just one, verse 6.
For a child has been born to us. A son has been given to us.
And the rulership will rest on his shoulder.
His name will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Eternal Father, Prince of Peace.
Why is Jesus called Prince of Peace?
Well, consider what Jehovah's Angels declared to the shepherds in the field at Jesus' birth at Luke chapter 2 and verse 14.
They said, Glory in the heights above to God and upon earth peace among men of good will.
How appropriate for the angels to announce at the birth of the destined Prince of Peace that they would be divine peace for those who have God's good will.
But when will this become a reality? It didn't happen when Jesus was on earth and we certainly don't see peace today instead of peace, what do we see?
We see the nations that are locked in hostilities and aggression and a competition for world dominance.
We see global violence and bloodshed. But please don't lose heart.
Because we don't see peace now does not mean it's not coming.
Isaiah chapter 9 and verse 6. It's not just wishful thinking. It's a promise from Almighty God and Jehovah cannot lie.
All his prophecies come true. In fact, let's read the last portion of verse 7 in Isaiah chapter 9.
The last verse, the last portion of verse 7. It says, the zeal of Jehovah of armies will do this. What does that mean?
It means that Jehovah does nothing in a half-hearted way. He's zealous to bring peace and he will.
We can be sure that whatever Jehovah promises he will fully accomplish.
So how will peace come to the earth? Did the Prince of Peace give us a clue?
Yes, he did. In fact, the key to everlasting peace is on the lips of millions of people throughout the world.
They know it by heart. But let's read it at Matthew chapter 6 and verse 9 and 10.
Matthew chapter 6 and verse 9. What a beautiful thought for us. This is where everlasting peace is going to come through.
It depends on the fulfillment of these verses. Verse 9. You must pray then this way.
Our Father in the heavens, let your name, the name Jehovah, be sanctified.
The emphasis that we place on the name of God is not merely a matter of religious knowledge.
Everyone must know God's name and treat it as something wholly and respected.
It has to be something sacred. It must be cleared of all the reproach that has been heaped upon it.
In fact, the well-being of the entire universe and its inhabitants depends upon the sanctification of Jehovah's name.
Now let's look at verse 10. Let your kingdom come. Let your will take place as in heaven also on earth.
God's kingdom. Two words, but so important. God's kingdom is the most powerful government humanity will ever see.
There is no nation or empire that can withstand the might of God's kingdom.
And any nation who thinks they can block the coming of God's kingdom is like an ant who plants itself firmly on the railroad track.
And with his hand raised, defiantly shouts to the oncoming locomotive, stop! You can't run over me.
Well, God's heavenly government has the power to destroy all present-day violent regimes. They're like ants to Jehovah.
And he will eliminate their ability to wage war, format, conflict, and to shed blood.
So yes, Matthew 6, 9, and 10, it's that valuable and important for lasting peace.
God's kingdom is the only road to lasting peace. And in his role as king, Revelation chapter 19 and verse 15 describes Jesus as striking the nations with an iron rod.
Soon, Jehovah will give the command to his son, and he will destroy all the things that disrupt peace.
God will be the terror that we have grown accustomed to living with day in and day out.
So what will happen next? This is what will happen.
Psalm 37, 10 and 11. Let's open our Bibles here to Psalm 37, 10 and 11, and just allow this prophecy to absorb and to thrill our minds and our hearts and give us a hope for the future.
Verse 10, Psalm 37.
Just a little while longer, and the wicked will be no more, a little while longer.
You will look at where they were, and they will not be there. Just a little while longer, just like children saying to their parents going on a trip,
are we there yet? And the parents say, just a little while longer, and that brings comfort to them, and it's the same with us.
So imagine that. This means you go into the streets. You're looking for a wicked person. You would not be able to find even one the wicked will be no more.
But the meek will possess the earth. That's what we're speaking about in verse 11. Let's read that.
But the meek will possess the earth, and they will find exquisite delight in the abundance of peace.
We love reading that. Men will be at peace. They will be at peace with themselves, with their neighbors, with their God.
God, how does that sound to you? Meditate on that.
Can you see yourself there in a peaceful new world, where the only news to tune into is regarding who's getting resurrected today?
Which new person will you be assigned to teach about Jehovah?
Can you imagine the joy of studying with a person, not just from a different culture, but from a different time period?
Seeing things through their eyes, as they come to love Jehovah as you do, well soon the Prince of Peace will turn this world into one of sheer delight.
No more borders, no more threats, no more worries, just an abundance of peace with your brothers and sisters.
Do you want to be there? Me too.
So how can we show our loyal support for the Prince of Peace?
Please watch the following video and notice the different ways we can do this right now.
I am no part of the world, but is the world a part of me?
I'm pressured every day to get involved in political issues that affect me socially.
Iron mentally and economically.
That pressure could rob me of my peace of mind.
And influence how I think.
I could take sides in my heart even if I'm not aware of it.
But I know that Jehovah will care for all of mankind's concerns by means of His kingdom ruled by His Son, Jesus Christ.
I show my support for Him in my prayers.
In how I think and feel.
And by teaching others what the kingdom will do for mankind.
I know there are millions of brothers and sisters all over the world.
Who lawyerly support the Prince of Peace just like me, because I...
I...
I am no part of the world.
So what takes away the peace in the country where you live, in your community, in your town, in your society?
Most likely it's the hot button social issues.
Did you notice how our two brothers and sisters showed their loyal support for the Prince of Peace?
What issues affected them?
Unfair tax heights, blatant injustice, a disregard of the environment.
All things in themselves seem like noble causes worthy to get involved.
How can they get away with this?
It's not right. We should do something.
Does that sound familiar?
We may not have a literal sword in our hand.
But we all have our Peter-like moments.
And if we're not careful, issues that are close to our heart can charge our emotions and we could lose our spiritual balance.
So what can help us when we see things that are wrong?
Remember what the Prince of Peace said to Peter in that highly charged moment.
Return your sword to its place.
In other words, this is not your fight.
So what do we do?
We do something far better than fight.
We preach.
Each time that we share the Kingdom news, we proclaim our support for Jesus' rule.
But here's the thing.
If we truly believe in the good news of the Kingdom, we will not do anything that hinders our ability to tell it.
Once again, it's so important.
Why?
Let's find out.
Let's open up to Peter's words himself, Peter 1 Peter 2 and verse 12.
First Peter 2 and verse 12.
Peter helps us here with why we need to maintain our conduct properly.
First Peter 2, 12.
Maintain your conduct fine among the nations so that when they accuse you of being wrongdoers, they may be eyewitnesses of your fine works.
And as a result, glorify God in the day of his inspection.
So Peter had to learn this.
But do we see the connection?
Our actions and words are directly linked to Jehovah.
When people see us, they see it people that worships Jehovah.
And when people hear us, they hear of people that worship Jehovah.
Imagine how our freeness of speech to speak about God's Kingdom would be hindered if we were to voice a position for a political issue.
And it can happen so easily.
It can happen at work or at school with relatives and so forth.
Satan sets the trap masterfully.
He's just waiting.
If he can only make us chop off the ear of anything in this world that causes hurt and indignation in our heart.
If he can hook our heart strings by getting us emotionally charged, he can then step back and reel us in.
The new world, our hope for true peace, it all starts to fade into the background.
Don't give him that chance.
Be determined to do what Titus chapter 3 and verse 1 and 2 tell us.
Let's read that.
Titus chapter 3 and verse 1 and 2.
Here's the scriptural admonition.
Continue reminding them to be in subjection and to be obedient to governments and authorities.
To be ready for every good work.
To speak injuriously of no one.
Not to be quarrelsome, but to be reasonable displaying all mildness toward all men.
Be in subjection and be obedient to governments and authorities.
Now let's break that down in practical terms.
What does it mean?
It means to obey the laws of the land and pay taxes.
Not to speak negatively about the superior authorities.
To be careful not to take sides on political issues, not even in our hearts.
Do you remember that expression from the video?
I'm not a part of the world, but is the world a part of me.
Of course, when we find ourselves between Caesar's law and God's law, we know what to do.
We apply Acts chapter 5 and verse 29 and obey God as ruler rather than men.
We know that.
But like Jesus who healed the ear of the armed guard Malcus,
we're determined to react with mildness when provoked by an injustice or cruelty in this world.
In conclusion, we have the indescribable privilege
to honor the Prince of Peace and how reassuring it is to know that Jesus understands our feelings.
He understands our emotions when we see things that we know are wrong.
He knows these things hurt our heart.
We just want to make things right.
But remember the critical lesson he taught his apostles in the Garden of Gethsemane.
This is not your fight.
Rather, Jehovah the King of Eternity and Jesus the Prince of Peace are telling us,
this is our fight.
Leave it in our hands.
Soon the prophecy at Isaiah chapter 9 verse 6 and 7 will be fulfilled completely.
In the meantime, keep preaching about the kingdom.
Avoid saying or doing anything that suggests taking sides on a political issue.
Don't allow yourself to chop off the ear of the injustices and the causes of conflict of this old world.
Peter tried that, but it didn't work.
He learned a big lesson that day in the Garden and he never forgot it.
May we never forget it either.
Now is the time to show your active and loyal support for the Prince of Peace
as we echo Peter's words at 2 Peter 3.14
and do our utmost to be found finally by Jehovah and the Prince of Peace,
spotless and unblemished and in peace.